Some time ago,
we interviewed two longtime members
of the United States Bethel family:
Brother Gerald Grizzle,
a helper to the Personnel Committee,
and Brother Sam Roberson.
These two brothers served
as traveling overseers
for many years prior to coming to Bethel.
Brother Grizzle has served
at Bethel since 1978,
and Brother Roberson
has served here for nearly 20 years.
They’ve been assigned
by the Governing Body
to assist them in shepherding
the United States Bethel family.
‘Shepherding the Bethel family?’ you may ask.
‘After all, Bethelites
don’t have any distressing trials!’
Listen to what our dear brothers have to say.
Brother Grizzle,
what are some of the challenges
that members of the Bethel family face?
The worldwide Bethel family
is a representation of the brotherhood.
By that I mean that
just as 1 Peter 5:9 says,
they face ‘the same kind of sufferings
‘being experienced by the entire association
of our brothers in the world.’
Some deal with serious health problems,
but they continue to serve.
Others
have concerns over aging parents,
and some have to give up
their beloved Bethel service.
Still others contend
with bouts of depression.
But the spirit
of these dear brothers and sisters
impels them to have the determination
not to allow these challenges
to dominate them.
Rather, their faith in Jehovah
strengthens their resolve
to focus on their assignments.
Thank you for that insight,
Brother Grizzle.
Brother Roberson, how have you been able
to comfort such ones?
When we find out a Bethelite
is going through a tragedy,
there are four things that we do.
Number one, we pray for them
and develop specific spiritual points
according to their needs.
And that’s before we make the call.
Number two, when we actually make the call,
we really listen.
And I don’t mean
we just listen with our ears.
We try to listen with our hearts.
We try to feel what they feel.
We try to have compassion.
Number three, when we use God’s Word
to remind them
they’re not facing their crisis alone,
this is very effective.
As an example,
we called on a brother recently
who was going through a great trial,
and we shared, among other things,
Exodus 3:7, 12.
Let’s take a look at that:
“I have certainly seen the affliction
“of my people who are in Egypt,
“and I have heard their outcry
because of those who force them to work.”
And note the ending point here
—it’s very beautiful.
Jehovah doesn’t say,
‘I know how my people feel’;
he says: “I well  know
the pains [of my people].”
And then in giving assurance
dealing with Moses
fearing to go before Pharaoh,
in verse 12, just the A  part:
“To this he said:
‘I will prove to be with you.’”
It’s just a few words but so powerful,
where Jehovah is guaranteeing
that he’s going to give them undeniable proof
that he’s backing them up
and never moving away from them one inch.
And this gives us comfort.
Now, number four,
before we conclude the call,
we have an ending prayer with them.
And we use their names,
and this is very comforting
since we’re calling on Jehovah,
the Great Shepherd.
At 1 Thessalonians 5:14,
Paul says: “We urge you, brothers, to . . .
“speak consolingly to those
who are depressed,
[to] support the weak,
be patient toward all.”
And this is exactly what we’re trying to do.
Thanks for sharing those thoughts
—very interesting.
Brothers Grizzle and Roberson:
How has comforting others affected you?
Brother Grizzle first, please.
During these challenging times,
I sense Jehovah’s love for his people.
Over the years,
I have seen and experienced his care
when facing difficult times.
Some years ago,
I lost my mother, my brother,
and my father in death all within a year.
And in 2017,
I lost my dear wife, Bonnie,
after we had served Jehovah together
for nearly 65 years.
But with much prayer,
research, and love of the friends,
Jehovah has comforted me.
And now, thankfully,
I have been able
to offer encouragement to others.
Very touching, Brother Grizzle,
thank you.
Brother Roberson,
how has comforting others
affected you?
One of the most memorable challenges
was while my wife, Linda, and I
were in the circuit work
several years ago.
I lost my voice.
I had to have surgery on my vocal cords,
and for six weeks, I could not talk.
For a circuit overseer,
that’s like being a bird without its wings.
I wrote more notes in that six weeks
than I had written in my whole life!
But in spite of that
and along with other situations and tragedies
that we faced similar to Gerald’s,
Jehovah has seen us through them all.
And let me say, it’s been a real pleasure
to share Jehovah’s comfort with so many.
And as we do,
we see the Governing Body’s interest
in all of Jehovah’s people,
including those with added responsibility.
They truly reflect Jehovah’s feelings
as “the God of all comfort.”
Well, thank you, brothers.
We really appreciate your comments.
And more than the shepherding that you do
is the example that you have set
in enduring trials,
in experiencing Jehovah’s comfort,
and in comforting others.
Thank you so much.